---
layout: post
title: My mind is going, I can feel it
tags: society
---
I want my mommy and daddy. I want to go home. I've lived out of the house for over two decades now, but I miss it.  I miss watching Batman: The Animated Series on a 10 by 10 inch cathode ray TV set while eating ritz crackers while sitting on our beige Nylon carpet. I miss midtown video, on middle-field road.  I miss VHS.

The discovery of great film was a big part of my upbringing, and for better or worse, my intellect during my teen years should rightfully be credited to Midtown video on middle field road in Palo Alto (sadly, they closed shop in 2004). The movie that kicked off the never ending binge was Terry Gilliam's sci-fi thriller, 12 Monkeys, where I learned one could get away with style over substance as long as both were present. However, the first truly challenging film I enjoyed was Stanley Kubrick's "2001: A Space Oddesey".

After watching it once, I watched it again a week later.  Then again.  But always by myself. Convincing anybody to watch this movie was and is always a struggle. I tried to convince my brother (he might have been 14 years old at the time) to watch it.  At 15 minutes in, not a single line of dialog had been spoken, the only characters were a bunch of loud apes in the savannah, and my brother was pretty sure we had the wrong cassette in our VCR. At 20 minutes the apes were howling at a black rectangle and avant-garde opera music blasted on the soundtrack.  I was surprised to hear no complaint from my brother at this point.  But he couldn't complain.  He had walked out of the room 5 minutes ago.

I love 2001, but I can't blame people for hating it.  I'm sure opera is great for some people, but I don't feel obligated to enjoy it myself. It's quite clear that Kubrick wanted 2001 to be some sort of space opera. The Blue Danube, Ligetti, seriously, there is an intermission. The first shot, after 2 minutes of dissonent flute noises in the dark, is a shot above the moon with the earth and sun aligned in the distance to the sound of Strauss's Thus Spake Zarathustra. Everything about the movie carries weight. But, where does this weight come from? While the film may feel grand and intimidating, interpreting 2001 is actually quite easy to do. The film aggressively refuses to claim any one interpretation as "correct", and in so doing, opens the door to virtually anything an active viewer wishes to bring to the table. This is where the weight comes from.  The film is a religious film, a story about our position relative to god, like the bible, which is often criticized for pacing. Full of stories, which may be truly meaningless, and of a time long forgotten, but that lives on because the stories feel as if they have meaning, and if they feel like they have meaning we feel compelled to find meaning.  In our search to find meaning we will ultimately come up with something, and bada-boom-bada-bing, from water to wine, we obtain meaning.

In our godless era I feel quite save in coming out as a devout athiest (you gotta have faith). There is no such thing as free will, we are slaves to the whims of quantum fluctuations. We have emerged from the furnace of evolution to believe we have free will, but belief is not knowledge. I don't think it about this most of the time.  Most of the time I'm thinking about how I can make dinner using the beets/mayonaise/bread ends that are all that remains in my fridge. However, during these mundane moments of the day, our subconscious is running chron jobs, keeping alive a semi-awareness of the fact that we don’t have free will, an acknowledgement that something else is pulling the puppet strings, and this feeling beneath the surface is what compels us to believe in a higher entity, a god.
